---
Tags:
  - productivity
  - cognitive science
---

# Attention, work and workflow

We can focus on only 1 thing when we work. Keep our attention focus by reducing other distractions, or by offloading them.

We can only remember a maximum of 7 (±2) things in mind at the same time (Miller). Thus, it is essential to offload them from our [working memory] when we are not working on them, so as to free our mental resources for the other thing we should focus on.
  
  - We can hold a maximum of seven things in our head at the same time, plus/minus two (Miller 1956).
  - A good workflow system should also allow us to resume them later with the least resistance/effort.

Our brain does not distinguish between open, incomplete tasks/items/information with closed, done counterparts. Every item we need to keep in mind takes up mental resource.

  - Therefore, it is wise to unload them in a reliable system, e.g. as fleeting notes in a slip-box system. It helps us to focus back on things that matter for the moment being and deal with them in a favourable time later again.  
    --> [[Boundaries for a working slip-box system]]
    - *‘Our brain does not distinguish a finished task or an unfinished task in our memory. By writing the task down, it off-loads our mental resources for other things to focus on.*
    - ‘*But thanks to [Zeigarnik]’s follow-up research, we also know that we don’t actually have to finish tasks to convince our brains to stop thinking about them. All we have to do is to write them down in a way that convinces us that it will be taken care of. That’s right: The brain doesn't distinguish between an actual finished task and one that is postponed by taking a note. By writing something down, we literally get it out of our heads.’*(Ahrens; ch. 9)

Otherwise, they act as distraction and constantly tax on our mental resource to be kept remembered.

Writing down things allows they to become objective. It also helps us to compare ideas—and to focus on comparing ideas—when we need to.
  - Focus means jumping between focus points (but on/from one motive). Thus, it is better to have ideas and thought written down which can be focused, compare and ponder upon in front of our eyes. (Ahrens; ch. 12)
  - *‘It is much easier to detect these small but crucial differences when we literally have our notes in front of our eyes, comparing them during our attempts to connect them. The brain is very good at making associations and spotting patterns and similarities between seemingly different things and also very good in spotting differences between seemingly similar things, but it needs to have them presented objectively and externally. It is much easier to see differences and similarities than to detect them by mere thinking.’* (Ahrens; ch. 12)

[working memory]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Working_memory
[Zeigarnik]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zeigarnik_effect

## Related

- [[Mental tricks for shower thoughts]]

*Last update: 2021-02-18*

---

## References

Ahrens, Sönke. _[[How To Take Smart Notes]]: One Simple Technique to Boost Writing, Learning and Thinking – for Students, Academics and Nonfiction Book Writers_. Sönke Ahrens, 2017.

Miller, G. A. ‘The Magical Number Seven plus or Minus Two:  Some Limits on Our Capacity for Processing Information’. _Psychological Review_, vol. 63, no. 2, Mar. 1956, pp. 81–97.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Boundaries for a working slip-box system]: Boundaries-for-a-working-slip-box-system "Boundaries for a working slip-box system"
[How To Take Smart Notes]: How-to-take-smart-notes "How To Take Smart Notes"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"