---
tags:
  - knowledge-management
  - education
---

# Knowledge is locked up and will dissipate if not shared

If we want to keep insights alive to ourselves, we must always carry them with us. This becomes a burden or even pain of silently remembering what we have learnt or know.  
==> [[Learning in public]]

Knowledge is only knowledge when it can be passed on, taught, applied, debated, challenged, questioned, deepened and improved. Bringing your knowledge to light to public helps all of the above-mentioned. Most importantly, it is mutually beneficial.

- > 'There is no such thing as private knowledge in academia. An idea kept private is as good as one you never had. And a fact no one can reproduce is no fact at all. Making something public always means to write it down so it can be read. There is no such thing as a history of unwritten ideas. *(Ahrens)*

Sharing knowledge with others not only helps keep ideas alive but also provide an opportunity to further them through discussion, allowing more external input from/about any relevant topics.

- > 'Education should focus on the exchange of thoughts, discussion around arguments, and corroboration based on facts. The students and the professor are not in the classroom for one another but the above-mentioned dialogue and its product: the pursuit of truth. The author or speaker does not count but the idea.' *(Ahrens)*

==> [[Research and learning]]

*Last update: 2021-03-21*

---

## References

Ahrens, Sönke. *[[How To Take Smart Notes]]: One Simple Technique to Boost Writing, Learning and Thinking – for Students, Academics and Nonfiction Book Writers*. Sönke Ahrens, 2017, ch. 5.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Learning in public]: Learning-in-public "Learning in public"
[Research and learning]: Research-and-learning "Research and learning"
[How To Take Smart Notes]: How-To-Take-Smart-Notes "How To Take Smart Notes"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"