---
title: "Mastery/expertise vs performance"
tags:
  - education
---

# Mastery/expertise vs performance

There are differences between *passive* information consumption and *active* retention.

There are also differences between merely reciting facts and skilfully recalling them out & applying them smartly.

Mastery/expertise ≠ good performance of what is taught. To improve on what we do, we should focus on how to aptly mobilise our knowledge, not strictly following instructions.
  - Mastery requires **‘embodied experience’** and flexible application of internalised knowledge (on the right context at the right time.
    - This is only acquirable through prologned, systematic training.
  - In relation to creativity, this ‘mastery’ also works similarly.  
    ==> [[Flexible framework is required for creative work]]
  - **Sticking to rules** (and planning) only makes us good performer/executor according to what is given/planned.
    - To a certain extent, it is a sign of lack of confidence because following a standardised manual provides us a ‘safe’ way to perform to get to a desired, promised result (Ahrens).
    - *‘Example of mastery/expertise vs perfomance on CPR paramedics. Showing the nuance between blindly sticking to rules and planning and flexibly applying internalised knowledge to real-life situations.’* (Ahrens).
    - ==> Recognition, not recall @ [[Heuristics for interaction design]]


## Related

- [[Research and learning]]

*Last update: 2021-02-18*

---

## References

Ahrens, Sönke. _[[How To Take Smart Notes]]: One Simple Technique to Boost Writing, Learning and Thinking – for Students, Academics and Nonfiction Book Writers_. Sönke Ahrens, 2017, ch. 9.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Flexible framework is required for creative work]: flexible-framework-is-required-for-creative-work "Flexible framework is required for creative work"
[Heuristics for interaction design]: heuristics-for-interaction-design "Heuristics for interaction design"
[Research and learning]: research-and-learning "Research and learning"
[How To Take Smart Notes]: how-to-take-smart-notes "How To Take Smart Notes"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"