

Note-taking is for **rapid capture** and [quick reference later][Anne-Laure Le Cunff]. It is instant. Note-taken information touches only the surface of our memory entry and is poorly assimilated. In general, it has low retrievability. What we wrote down as a short note for recall tend to fade away quickly over time.(Ahrens; ch. 10)

On the upside, note-taking has the benefit of freeing our mind from the burden of constantly holding on to a certain thing. It **liberates the mental resource** required to sustain this remembrance and allows us to focus on other tasks/matters, such as creative work (Ahrens; ch. 9).

Note-making is about **connecting thoughts** and perpetuating understanding into knowledge. By *working through* your comprehension, we force ourselves to check whether we have grasped the gist of our material (Ahrens; ch. 8). We mobilise digested information, actively recall what we have retained, and craft **[our own version of knowledge][Anne-Laure Le Cunff]**. We internalise and adapt useful cold facts (Abstraction) to usable arguments in a meaningful way for topics of our interest (Ahrens; ch. 10–11). Stitching up pieces of information build connections *across* time frame and contextual boundaries of their origins. In this way, we generates more anchors for active recall, creates a network of understanding, and assist knowledge application. It is akin to the [Generation Effect] of active learning.

To make effective notes, **write objectively**, as if we are explaining a concept to a third person. This neutral, standardised way of note-making may seem unnatural but will help us spot similarities, differences and nuances amongst ideas durably (Ahrens; ch. 12).

Even though not every note may appear to be useful for the moment, note-making also prepares **serendipitous discovery** and **insights for your future thoughts** (Ahrens; ch. 2). It is similar to the 'verbund' concept in chemistry, where by-products are used as resource elements for another intended production later on (Ahrens; ch. 13). Thanks to the networked connections, you would have a lot more entry points (hence a higher chance) to stumble upon previously associated ideas. You will also be more confident with your ideas as your connected notes make a thought-through trove of supporting arguments (Ahrens; ch. 7).



## Further reading
- Le Cunff, Anne-Laure. ‘From note-taking to note-making’, *Ness Labs*. https://nesslabs.com/from-note-taking-to-note-making.
- Le Cunff, Anne-Laure. ‘The generation effect’, *Ness Labs*. https://nesslabs.com/generation-effect-3.

[^1]: As [Anne-Laure Le Cunff] quoted from [Edgar Wright] about study methods: ‘Note-taking often happens while listening; the goal is to quickly capture content so we can refer back to it later. Note-making is more common while reading; it consists in deliberately crafting our own version so we can learn and create better.’

[Generation effect]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generation_effect
[Anne-Laure Le Cunff]: https://nesslabs.com/from-note-taking-to-note-making.

*Last update: 2021-02-13*

* * *
 
## References

Ahrens, Sönke. _[[How To Take Smart Notes]]: One Simple Technique to Boost Writing, Learning and Thinking – for Students, Academics and Nonfiction Book Writers_. Sönke Ahrens, 2017.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[How To Take Smart Notes]: How-to-take-smart-notes "How To Take Smart Notes"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"