---
title: "Trust is different from trustworthiness"
---

# Trust is different from trustworthiness

Trust is different from trustworthiness. **Trust is an investment** given out between two entities/parties and is contextual/purposeful. It responds to the question whether or not to place trust (in a person, institution or system). This can imply good and bad decisions. **Trustworthiness is a quality** unilaterally _earned_ from one side. It responds to the question whether the trust placed is really worth it. Aligning trust with trustworthiness gives the best outcome.

Trust depends on:

- Social recognition (e.g. review, social hallmarks, credit score)
- Appearance, behaviour (and the coherence thereof)
- **Split-second social perception** (i.e. the snap judgement made within a tenth of a second when we see someone’s face about his/her traits) (Botsman; ch. 5)

Trustworthiness depends on:

- **Competence**  
How capable a person is to do something. Does he/she have the skills, knowledge and experience to do a particular role or task.
- **Reliability**  
A person’s consistency in doing what they said they would do for you. ‘Can I depend on this person? Will he/she follow through?’
- **Integrity**  
About honesty and fairness. ‘What do they gain by lying or by telling the truth?’  
‘Say what they mean, and mean what they say.’
- **Benevolence**  
Empathy and goodwill. How much does this person care about the goal or commitment?

Trustworthiness, as a quality, implies **reliability** and can be interpreted as (added) value. Trust (especially generalised trust or through collective review, for example), as a hallmark, can stoke security. Both of them can lever up willingness to pay risk premium in a transaction (Botsman; ch. 6).  
==> [[Trust is the basic unit of human connection]]

Informed transparency can help earning trustworthiness and eventually realise trust leap (build the trust and take it into action) or boost existing trust.  
==> [[Transparency can but not always help establish trust]]

*Last update: 2020-06-20*

* * *

## References
Botsman, Rachel. _Who Can You Trust? How Technology Brought Us Together and Why It Might Drive Us Apart_. Perseus Books, 2017.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Trust is the basic unit of human connection]: ../notes/Trust-is-the-basic-unit-of-human-connection "Trust is the basic unit of human connection"
[Transparency can but not always help establish trust]: ../notes/Transparency-can-but-not-always-help-establish-trust "Transparency can but not always help establish trust"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"